feat: Editorial review, Relative color syntax (#32004)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/color_value/lch/index.md

- `C`
  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value is a measure of the color's chroma (roughly representing the "amount of color"). Its minimum useful value is `0%`, or `0`, while its maximum is theoretically unbounded (but in practice does not exceed `230`), with `100%` being equivalent to `150`.
- `H`
  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, an {{CSSXref("&lt;angle&gt;")}}, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0deg` in this case) representing the color's {{CSSXref("&lt;hue&gt;")}} angle.
- `A` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An {{CSSXref("&lt;alpha-value&gt;")}} representing the alpha channel value of the color, where the number `0` corresponds to `0%` (fully transparent) and `1` corresponds to `100%` (full opacity), or the keyword `none` can be used to explicitly specify no alpha channel. If the `A` channel value is not explicitly specified, it defaults to 100%. If included, the value is preceded by a slash (`/`).

> > **Note:** See [Missing color components](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#missing_color_components) for more information on the effect of `none`.

Reviewer: updated that page: https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/32667 to make it more useful for all of the links in this PR.

Author: Cool, nice one.

Let's look at some examples that specify origin and output alpha channel values. The first one specifies the output alpha channel value as being the same as the origin alpha channel value, whereas the second one specifies a different output alpha channel value, unrelated to the origin alpha channel value.

```css
lch(from hsl(0 100% 50% / 0.8) l c h / alpha)
/* Computed output color: lch(54.29 106.854 40.856 / 0.8) */

lch(from hsl(0 100% 50% / 0.8) l c h / 0.5)
/* Computed output color: lch(54.29 106.854 40.856 / 0.5) */
```

In the following example, the `hsl()` origin color is again converted to the `lch()` equivalent — `lch(54.29 106.854 40.856)`. {{cssxref("calc")}} calculations are applied to the `L`, `C`, `H`, and `A` values, resulting in an output color of `lch(74.29 86.8541 0.856018 / 0.9)`:

```css
lch(from hsl(0 100% 50%) calc(l + 20) calc(c - 20) calc(h - 40) / calc(alpha - 0.1))
```

> > **Note:** Because the origin color channel values are resolved to `<number>` values, you have to add numbers to them when using them in calculations, even in cases where a channel would normally accept `<percentage>` values or other types. Adding a `<number>` to a `<percentage>`, for example, doesn't work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Because the origin color channel values are resolved to `<number>` values, you have to add numbers to them when using them in calculations, even in cases where a channel would normally accept `<percentage>` values or other types. Adding a `<percentage>` to a `<number>`, for example, doesn't work.
```

Author: Updated

## Syntax

```css
/* Absolute values */
lch(29.2345% 44.2 27);
lch(52.2345% 72.2 56.2);
lch(52.2345% 72.2 56.2 / .5);

/* Relative values */
lch(from green l c h / 0.5)
lch(from #0000FF calc(l + 10) c h)
lch(from hsl(180 100% 50%) calc(l - 10) c h)
```

### Values

Below are descriptions of the allowed values for both absolute and [relative colors](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors/Relative_colors).

> **Note:** Usually when percentage values have a numeric equivalent in CSS, `100%` is equal to the number `1`.

> > This case is notable where `100%` is equal to the number `100` for the `L` value and `150` for the `C` value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This is not the case for `lch()`. Here `100%` is equal to the number `100` for the `L` value and `150` for the `C` value.
```

Author: updated

#### Absolute value syntax

```text
lch(L C H[ / A])
```

The parameters are as follows:

- `L`
  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `0` and `100`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `0%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value specifies the color's lightness. Here the number `0` corresponds to `0%` (black) and the number `100` corresponds to `100%` (white).
- `C`

>   - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value is a measure of the color's chroma (roughly representing the "amount of color"). Its minimum useful value is `0`, while its maximum is theoretically unbounded (but in practice does not exceed `230`). Here `0%` is equivalent to `0` and `100%` is equivalent to `150`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value is a measure of the color's chroma (roughly representing the "amount of color"). Its minimum useful value is `0%`, or `0`, while its maximum is theoretically unbounded (but in practice does not exceed `230`), with `100%` being equivalent to `150`.
```

Author: Good call, updated in both places.

- `H`

>   - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, an {{CSSXref("&lt;angle&gt;")}}, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0deg` in this case). This value represents the hue angle. More details on this type can be found on the {{CSSXref("&lt;hue&gt;")}} reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, an {{CSSXref("&lt;angle&gt;")}}, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0deg` in this case) representing the {{CSSXref("&lt;hue&gt;")}} angle.
```

Author: Brilliant, much more concise. I've updated this in all places on the color function pages where an `H` definition is used.

- `A` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An {{CSSXref("&lt;alpha-value&gt;")}} where the number `0` corresponds to `0%` (fully transparent) and `1` corresponds to `100%` (full opacity), or the keyword `none` explicitly specifies no alpha channel. If included, the value is preceded by a slash (`/`).

> **Note:** See [Missing color components](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#missing_color_components) for more information on the effect of `none`.

#### Relative value syntax

```text
lch(from <color> L C H[ / A])
```

The parameters are as follows:

- `from <color>`

>   - : The keyword `from` is always included when defining a relative color, followed by a {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;")}} value representing the **origin color**. This is the original color that the relative color is based on. Note that the origin color can be _any_ valid {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;")}} syntax, including another relative color.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : The keyword `from` is always included when defining a relative color, followed by a {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;")}} value representing the **origin color**. This is the original color that the relative color is based on. The origin color can be _any_ valid {{cssxref("&lt;color&gt;")}} syntax, including another relative color.
```

- `L`

>   - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `0` and `100`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `0%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value represents the lightness value of the output color. Here the number `0` corresponds to `0%` (black) and the number `100` corresponds to `100%` (white).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `0` and `100`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `0%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value represents the lightness value of the output color, with `l` representing the LCH lightness value of the origin color. Here the number `0` corresponds to `0%` (black) and the number `100` corresponds to `100%` (white).
```

Author: Again, no change. Refer back to my reasoning in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/32004#discussion_r1521366434

- `C`

>   - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value represents the output color's chroma value (roughly representing the "amount of color"). Its minimum useful value is `0`, while its maximum is theoretically unbounded (but in practice does not exceed `230`). Here `0%` is equivalent to `0` and `100%` is equivalent to `150`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}}, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value represents the output color's chroma value (roughly representing the "amount of color"). Its minimum useful value is `0`, while its maximum is theoretically unbounded (but in practice does not exceed `230`). Here, `0%` is equivalent to `0` and `100%` is equivalent to `150`. The variable `c` represents the LCH chroma value of the origin color.
```

Author: No change; see above.

- `H`

>   - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, an {{CSSXref("&lt;angle&gt;")}}, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0deg` in this case). This value represents the output color's hue angle. More details on this type can be found on the {{CSSXref("&lt;hue&gt;")}} reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}}, an {{CSSXref("&lt;angle&gt;")}}, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0deg` in this case). This value represents the output color's hue angle, with `h` representing the hue of the origin color. More details on this type can be found on the {{CSSXref("&lt;hue&gt;")}} reference.
```

Author: No change; see above.

- `A` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : An {{CSSXref("&lt;alpha-value&gt;")}} where the number `0` corresponds to `0%` (fully transparent) and `1` corresponds to `100%` (full opacity), or the keyword `none` explicitly specifies no alpha channel. This represents the alpha channel value of the output color. If the `A` channel value is not explicitly specified, it defaults to the alpha channel value of the origin color. If included, the value is preceded by a slash (`/`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : An {{CSSXref("&lt;alpha-value&gt;")}} where the number `0` corresponds to `0%` (fully transparent) and `1` corresponds to `100%` (full opacity), or the keyword `none` explicitly specifies no alpha channel. This represents the alpha channel value of the output color, with `alpha` representing the alpha channel value of the origin color. If the `A` channel value is not explicitly specified, it defaults to the alpha channel value of the origin color. If included, the value is preceded by a slash (`/`).
```

Author: No change, see above.

#### Defining relative color output channel components

When using relative color syntax inside an `lch()` function, the browser converts the origin color into an equivalent Lch color (if it is not already specified as such) The color is defined as three distinct color channel values — `l` (lightness), `c` (chroma), and `h` (hue) — plus an alpha channel value (`alpha`). These channel values are made available inside the function to be used when defining the output color channel values:

- The `l` channel value is resolved to a `<number>` between `0` and `100`.
- The `c` channel value is resolved to a `<number>` between `0` and `150`.
- The `h` channel value is resolved to a `<number>` between `0` and `360`.
- The `alpha` channel is resolved to a `<number>` between `0` and `1`, inclusive.

When defining a relative color, the different channels of the output color can be expressed in several different ways. Below, we'll study some examples to illustrate these.

> It is important to bear in mind that, in the first two examples below, we are using relative color syntax. However, the first one outputs the same color as the origin color and the second one outputs a color not based on the origin color at all. They don't really create relative colors! You'd be unlikely to ever use these in a real codebase, and would probably just use an absolute color value instead. We included these examples as a starting point for learning about relative `lch()` syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the first two examples below, we are using relative color syntax. However, the first one outputs the same color as the origin color and the second one outputs a color not based on the origin color at all. They don't really create relative colors! You'd be unlikely to ever use these in a real codebase, and would probably just use an absolute color value instead. We included these examples as a starting point for learning about relative `lch()` syntax.
```

Author: updated

{{EmbedLiveSample("adjusting_opacity_with_lch")}}

### Using relative colors with lch()

> The below example styles three {{htmlelement("div")}} elements with different background colors. The middle one is given the unmodified `--base-color`, while the left and right ones are given lightened and darkened variants of that `--base-color`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example styles three {{htmlelement("div")}} elements with different background colors. The middle one is given the unmodified `--base-color`, while the left and right ones are given lightened and darkened variants of that `--base-color`.
```
It's the current example, not the below example

Author: updated
